#summary If you feel this program is useful, please consider donating money.
#labels Featured

= Introduction =
I, Stefan Sundin, am a student in Sweden, programming my tools in my free time. My programs will always remain free and open source, even if I receive no donations.
While you don't have to donate, donations are a great motivation for me to keep updating my programs. They are perfect to get my attention if you want me to add some special feature etc. :) But you should probably [mailto:recover89@gmail.com send me an email] first and ask if I can do it at all.
If you don't want to donate money to me, consider donating to charity instead.

= Who have contributed =
While I have done most of the work, here are some people who have contributed.
  * [mailto:algernon@gmail.com Fabrizio Ferri]: Spanish translation
  * [mailto:pasmane@gmail.com p|b]: Lithuanian translation

= How to donate =
The easiest way to donate to me is by [https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_donations&business=recover89%40gmail%2ecom sending money with Paypal to recover89@gmail.com]. Note that Paypal will take a processing fee if you don't have a Paypal account. If you prefer, you can transfer money to me by bank, [mailto:recover89@gmail.com email me] to get banking details.

[https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_donations&business=recover89%40gmail%2ecom http://shutdownguard.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/donate.png]

= Donations received =
Donations received so far: 0$

Note: This sum includes donations I've received towards my tools: SuperF4, KillKeys, TrayCD, !ShutdownGuard and AltDrag.