#summary Help me localize ShutdownGuard into more languages.
#labels Featured,Phase-Implementation,Phase-QA

= Introduction =

Okay, so you've decided to translate my program. Great!
It's pretty simple, all you have to do is download a 7z file and translate two files.
You can download the file here: [http://shutdownguard.googlecode.com/files/Localize-1b.7z Localize-1b.7z].

If you have any problems during the process, just let me know either [mailto:recover89@gmail.com via email] or post a comment below. Even if you figure out the problem without my help, please let me know what was confusing so I can improve this page.

Once you have the file, you will have to extract it with a program like [http://www.7-zip.org/ 7-zip].
Then, rename the "_en-US_" directory to your language-territory codes.
In "_en-US_", the "_en_" specify the language and the "_US_" specify the territory.
E.g., here in Sweden we have "_sv_" for _Svenska_ (the Swedish language) and "_SE_" for _Sweden_ (ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code).
You can find your language code [http://www.loc.gov/standards/iso639-2/php/code_list.php in this list] and your territory code [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-2#Officially_assigned_code_elements in this list].

= Lets translate! =
Open _strings.h_ with a text editor, Notepad works fine.
The first thing you see is a huge comment saying blah blah blah.
Update the second line, replace the text "_xx-XX localization by XXX (email)_" to your language-territory, your name and your email, if you want to be credited.
Scroll past the license block and you'll see a lot of `#define L10N_SOMETHING L"something"`. You see that there are an `L` before all the strings, it means that the string is in Unicode. !ShutdownGuard is now a Unicode program, which means it should be possible to translate the program to virtually all languages.

The first one, "`L10N_FILE_VERSION`", says which localization version these strings correspond to.
When I update the program in a way that the strings are no longer compatible, this value will change and your localized version will be outdated.
Don't worry though, if you don't mind, I will send you an email before I release a version with new strings, giving you plenty of time to translate.
Just leave this value, I will update it whenever it needs updating.

Lets go down further, now it's time to translate the strings.
Here's an explanation of the strings you'll see:
|| `L10N_MENU_xxx`      || These strings are the ones in the tray menu. ||
|| `L10N_TRAY_xxx`      || These strings are the tooltip for the tray icon. You'll notice that "_L10N_NAME_" is used here, that will be automatically replaced during compilation. ||
|| `L10N_BALLOON`       || The balloon tip which is displayed when !ShutdownGuard prevents something. ||
|| `L10N_VISTA_REASON`  || The text for the Vista shutdown dialog. ||
|| `L10N_SHUTDOWN_xxx`  || The strings in the dialog asking you how you want to shutdown. ||
|| `L10N_ABOUT_xxx`     || The about dialog. Replace "_XXX (email)_" with your name and email, if you want to be credited. ||

Great, now you've translated the program, now it's time to translate the _info.txt_ file.
Just open up _info.txt_ with Notepad and start translating. Replace "_XXX (email)_" as usual.
You don't have to translate the changelog, but if you think it would be helpful, you are welcome to do so.

The final thing you need to translate is the installer.
Open up _installer.nsh_ with Notepad. Replace "_xx-XX_" and "_XXX (email)_" as usual.
Here's an explanation of the installer strings:
|| `MUI_LANGUAGE`        || Replace `English` with your language in English (e.g. _Spanish_, not _Español_). ||
|| `LANG`                || Replace `ENGLISH` with your language in English. ||
|| `L10N_RUNNING_xxx`    || These messages will pop up if !ShutdownGuard is already running. ||
|| `L10N_CLOSING`        || This is what gets into the log if you choose to close !ShutdownGuard. ||
|| `L10N_SHORTCUT`       || The option to put !ShutdownGuard on the start menu. ||
|| `L10N_AUTOSTART`      || The option to put !ShutdownGuard on autostart. ||
|| `L10N_AUTOSTART_HIDE` || This message will pop up to ask the user if he wants the tray icon to be hidden on autostart. ||

= You're done! =
That wasn't so hard, was it?
All you have to do now is zip the directory (it doesn't have to be a 7z archive) and email it to me at [mailto:recover89@gmail.com recover89@gmail.com].
If you want to translate the changelog in newer versions, even though no other strings have changed, let me know in the email.
I will hopefully be able to release the translated version within a few days.
In the future you will be able to translate my other programs as well, you can see which ones they are by taking a look at the projects linked to from [http://code.google.com/u/recover89/ http://code.google.com/u/recover89/].